# TotestraRG32.py

TotestraRG32.py is a variant of Totestra (which is, in turn, a variant of
Cephalo’s “Perfect World” maps script) using RadioGatun[32] instead of 
the Mersenne Twister for its random number generator.

More to the point, it’s possible to use this map script to make maps
without using Civilization IV; this script now has a standalone mode 
for making maps on the command line.  This is useful for people who
want to see Perfect World generated maps without starting Civilization IV,
or for people who want to automate making a large number of maps (useful
for finding seeds which make for really nice worlds).

To run it stand alone, be sure to be at a command line, have Python2
installed, then type in something like: `python TotestraRG32.py 5`

This will generate the "T5" random map, which is the same map as the
"T5" pull-down seed option. Note that, when run standalone, the map
generator will generate a plot map then exit. The map is all of the
default options, which can not be changed (in particular, in the stand
alone mode, we only generate 144x96 huge medium patience world maps)

A tool for converting the unusual ASCII format generated by TotestraRG32
in to a PNG file is included in the directory `plotmap2png/`; this tool
requires Python 3 and the `pypng` library to run.  That directory
also shows how to run TotestraRG32 as a standalone map generator in
“batch mode” using standard UNIX tools.

# TotestraBigCoast.py, TotestraDry.py, qTotestraHUGE.py, and TotestraStandAlone.py

These are forks of Totestra:

* TotestraBigCoast.py: Make the coastal area be larger, so that lanteens
  (ships without navigation) are more useful.
* TotestraDry.py: Totestra with more desert
* qTotestraHUGE.py: Totestra with maps four times bigger
* TotestraStandAlone.py: Totestra which can be run stand alone w/o Civ4

https://forums.civfanatics.com/threads/totestra-a-new-perfectworld2-fork.461262/

